CRAYSAT-1429: Add documentation for blade swap using SAT (#1654)
Cray-HPE/docs-csm: operations/node_management/Swap_a_Compute_Blade_with_a_Different_System_Using_SAT.md

- Check the status of the high-speed network (HSN) and record link status before the procedure.

- The blades must have the coolant drained and filled during the swap to minimize cross-contamination of cooling systems.

  - Review procedures in *HPE Cray EX Coolant Service Procedures H-6199*
  - Review the *HPE Cray EX Hand Pump User Guide H-6200*

- The System Admin Toolkit \(SAT\) is installed and configured on the system.

## Prepare the source system blade for removal

1. Using the work load manager (WLM), drain running jobs from the affected nodes on the blade. Refer to the vendor documentation for the WLM for more information.

1. Use the `sat bootsys` command to shut down the nodes on the target blade (in this example, `x9000c3s0`.) Specify the appropriate component xname and BOS
   template for the node type in the following command.

   ```bash
   ncn# BOS_TEMPLATE=cos-2.0.30-slurm-healthy-compute
   ncn# sat bootsys shutdown --stage bos-operations --bos-limit x9000c3s0 --recursive --bos-templates $BOS_TEMPLATE
   ```

### Source: Use SAT to remove the blade from hardware management

> 1. Use the `sat swap` command to power off the slot and delete the blade's ethernet interfaces and Redfish endpoints from HSM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Power off the slot and delete blade information from HSM.

   Use the `sat swap` command to power off the slot and delete the blade's ethernet interfaces and Redfish endpoints from HSM.
```

   ```bash
   ncn# sat swap blade -a disable x9000c3s0
   ```

>    This command will save the MAC addresses, IP addresses, and node xnames from the blade to a JSON document. The document is stored in a file with the following naming convention:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   This command will save the MAC addresses, IP addresses, and node component names (xnames) from the blade to a JSON document. The document is stored in a file with the following naming convention:
```

>    ```screen

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ```text
```

   ethernet-interface-mappings-<blade_xname>-<current_year>-<current_month>-<current_day>.json
   ```

>    If a mapping file already exists with the above name, a numeric suffix will be appended to the file name in front of the `.json` extension.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If a mapping file already exists with the above name, then a numeric suffix will be appended to the file name in front of the `.json` extension.
```

   The mapping file should be copied to the NCN on the destination system used for the swap procedure, if necessary. In this example, the
   filename is changed to `ethernet-interface-mappings-src.json` on the destination system for clarity.

   ```bash
   ncn# scp ethernet-interface-mappings-x3000c3s0-2022-01-01.json <dest>-ncn-m001:ethernet-interface-mappings-src.json
   ```

### Source: Remove the blade

1. Remove the blade from the source system.
   Review the *Remove a Compute Blade Using the Lift* procedure in *HPE Cray EX Hardware Replacement Procedures H-6173* for detailed instructions for replacing liquid-cooled blades ([HPE Support](https://internal.support.hpe.com/)).
1. Drain the coolant from the blade and fill with fresh coolant to minimize cross-contamination of cooling systems.
   Review *HPE Cray EX Coolant Service Procedures H-6199*. If using the hand pump, review procedures in the *HPE Cray EX Hand Pump User Guide H-6200* ([HPE Support](https://internal.support.hpe.com/)).
1. Install the blade from the source system in a storage rack or leave it on the cart.

## Prepare the destination system blade for removal

> 1. Using the work load manager (WLM), drain running jobs from the affected nodes on the blade. Refer to the vendor documentation for the WLM for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Using the work load manager (WLM), drain running jobs from the affected nodes on the blade.

   Refer to the vendor documentation for the WLM for more information.
```

> 1. Use the `sat bootsys` command (in this example, `x1005c0s3`) to shut down the nodes on the target blade. Specify the appropriate component name (xname) and BOS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Shut down the nodes on the target blade.

   Use the `sat bootsys` command to shut down the nodes on the target blade (in this example, `x1005c0s3`).
   Specify the appropriate component name (xname) and BOS
```

   template for the node type in the following command.

   ```bash
   ncn# BOS_TEMPLATE=cos-2.0.30-slurm-healthy-compute
   ncn# sat bootsys shutdown --stage bos-operations --bos-limit x1005c0s3 --recursive --bos-templates $BOS_TEMPLATE
   ```

### Destination: Use SAT to remove the blade from hardware management

> 1. Use the `sat swap` command to power off the slot and delete the blade's ethernet interfaces and Redfish endpoints from HSM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Power off the slot and delete blade information from HSM.

   Use the `sat swap` command to power off the slot and delete the blade's ethernet interfaces and Redfish endpoints from HSM.
```

   ```bash
   ncn# sat swap blade -a disable x1005c0s3
   ```

   The mapping file should be copied to the NCN on the destination system used for the swap procedure, if necessary. In this example, the
   filename is changed to `ethernet-interface-mappings-src.json` on the destination system for clarity.

   ```bash
   ncn# scp ethernet-interface-mappings-x1005c0s3-2022-01-01.json <src>-ncn-m001:ethernet-interface-mappings-dest.json
   ```

### Destination: Swap the blade hardware

1. Remove the blade from destination system install it in a storage cart.

1. Install the blade from the source system into the destination system.

> ## <a name="bring-up-the-blade-in-the-destination-system"></a>Bring up the blade in the destination system

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<a name="bring-up-the-blade-in-the-destination-system"></a>

## Bring up the blade in the destination system
```

### Destination: Use SAT to add the blade to hardware management

> 1. Use the `sat swap` command to map the nodes' ethernet interface MAC addresses to the appropriate IP addresses and component xnames, and begin discovery for the blade.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Begin discovery for the blade.

   Use the `sat swap` command to map the nodes' Ethernet interface MAC addresses to the appropriate IP addresses and component names (xnames), and begin discovery for the blade.
```

>    The `--src-mapping` and `--dst-mapping` arguments should be used to pass in the ethernet interface mapping files created during the previous steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The `--src-mapping` and `--dst-mapping` arguments should be used to pass in the Ethernet interface mapping files created during the previous steps.
```

   ```bash
   ncn# sat swap blade -a enable --src-mapping ethernet-interface-mappings-src.json --dst-mapping ethernet-interface-mappings-x1005c0s3-2022-01-01.json x10005c0s3
   ```

### Power on and boot the nodes

> 1. Use `sat bootsys` to power on and boot the nodes. Specify the appropriate BOS template for the node type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Power on and boot the nodes.

   Use `sat bootsys` to power on and boot the nodes. Specify the appropriate BOS template for the node type.
```

   ```bash
   ncn# BOS_TEMPLATE=cos-2.0.30-slurm-healthy-compute
   ncn# sat bootsys boot --stage bos-operations --bos-limit x1005c0s3 --recursive --bos-templates $BOS_TEMPLATE
   ```

### Check firmware

> 1. Verify that the correct firmware versions for node BIOS, node controller (nC), NIC mezzanine card (NMC), GPUs, and so on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Validate the firmware.

   Verify that the correct firmware versions are present for the node BIOS, node controller (nC), NIC mezzanine card (NMC), GPUs, and so on.
```

> 1. Verify that the correct firmware versions for node BIOS, node controller (nC), NIC mezzanine card (NMC), GPUs, and so on.

Reviewer: Provide a link in this step to the FAS documentation on how to check these versions.

1. If necessary, update the firmware.

   Review the [FAS Admin Procedures](../firmware/FAS_Admin_Procedures.md) and [Update Firmware with FAS](../firmware/Update_Firmware_with_FAS.md) procedure.

   ```bash
   ncn# cray fas actions create CUSTOM_DEVICE_PARAMETERS.json
   ```

### Check DVS

There should be a `cray-cps` pod (the broker), three `cray-cps-etcd` pods and their waiter, and at least one `cray-cps-cm-pm` pod. Usually there are two `cray-cps-cm-pm` pods:

> one on `ncn-w002`, and one on `ncn-w003` or another worker node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
one on `ncn-w002` and one on another worker node.
```

1. Check the `cray-cps` pods on worker nodes and verify they are `Running`.

   ```bash
   ncn# kubectl get pods -Ao wide | grep cps
   ```

   Example output:

   ```text
   services   cray-cps-75cffc4b94-j9qzf    2/2  Running   0   42h 10.40.0.57  ncn-w001
   services   cray-cps-cm-pm-g6tjx         5/5  Running   21  41h 10.42.0.77  ncn-w003
   services   cray-cps-cm-pm-kss5k         5/5  Running   21  41h 10.39.0.80  ncn-w002
   services   cray-cps-etcd-knt45b8sjf     1/1  Running   0   42h 10.42.0.67  ncn-w003
   services   cray-cps-etcd-n76pmpbl5h     1/1  Running   0   42h 10.39.0.49  ncn-w002
   services   cray-cps-etcd-qwdn74rxmp     1/1  Running   0   42h 10.40.0.42  ncn-w001
   services   cray-cps-wait-for-etcd-jb95m 0/1  Completed
   ```

> 1. SSH to each worker node running CPS/DVS, and run `dmesg -T` to ensure that there are no recurring `"DVS: merge_one"` error messages as shown. The error messages indicate that DVS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. SSH to each worker node running CPS/DVS and run `dmesg -T`.

   Ensure that there are no recurring `"DVS: merge_one"` error messages shown. These error messages indicate that DVS
```

   is detecting an IP address change for one of the client nodes.

   ```bash
   ncn# dmesg -T | grep "DVS: merge_one"
   ```

   ```text
   [Tue Jul 21 13:09:54 2020] DVS: merge_one#351: New node map entry does not match the existing entry
   [Tue Jul 21 13:09:54 2020] DVS: merge_one#353:   nid: 8 -> 8
   [Tue Jul 21 13:09:54 2020] DVS: merge_one#355:   name: 'x3000c0s19b1n0' -> 'x3000c0s19b1n0'
   [Tue Jul 21 13:09:54 2020] DVS: merge_one#357:   address: '10.252.0.26@tcp99' -> '10.252.0.33@tcp99'
   [Tue Jul 21 13:09:54 2020] DVS: merge_one#358:   Ignoring.
   ```

> 1. Make sure the Configuration Framework Service (CFS) finished successfully. Review *HPE Cray EX DVS Administration Guide 1.4.1 S-8004*.

Reviewer: Is 1.4.1 the correct version of the DVS guide for this version of CSM?

1. SSH to the node and check each DVS mount.

   ```bash
   nid001133:~ # mount | grep dvs | head -1
   ```

   Example output:

   ```text

>    /var/lib/cps-local/0dbb42538e05485de6f433a28c19e200 on /var/opt/cray/gpu/nvidia-squashfs-21.3 type dvs (ro,relatime,blksize=524288,statsfile=/sys/kernel/debug/dvs/mounts/1/stats,attrcache_timeout=14400,cache,nodatasync,noclosesync,retry,failover,userenv,noclusterfs,killprocess,noatomic,nodeferopens,no_distribute_create_ops,no_ro_cache,loadbalance,maxnodes=1,nnodes=6,nomagic,hash_on_nid,hash=modulo,nodefile=/sys/kernel/debug/dvs/mounts/1/nodenames,nodename=x3000c0s6b0n0:x3000c0s5b0n0:x3000c0s4b0n0:x3000c0s9b0n0:x3000c0s8b0n0:x3000c0s7b0n0)

Reviewer: ````suggestion
   /var/lib/cps-local/0dbb42538e05485de6f433a28c19e200 on /var/opt/cray/gpu/nvidia-squashfs-21.3 type dvs (ro,relatime,blksize=524288,statsfile=/sys/kernel/debug/dvs/mounts/1/stats,attrcache_timeout=14400,cache,nodatasync,noclosesync,retry,failover,userenv,noclusterfs,killprocess,noatomic,nodeferopens,no_distribute_create_ops,no_ro_cache,loadbalance,maxnodes=1,nnodes=6,nomagic,hash_on_nid,hash=modulo,nodefile=/sys/kernel/debug/dvs/mounts/1/nodenames,nodename=x3000c0s6b0n0:x3000c0s5b0n0:x3000c0s4b0n0:x3000c0s9b0n0:x3000c0s8b0n0:x3000c0s7b0n0)
   ```
````

>    nid001133:~ # ls /var/opt/cray/gpu/nvidia-squashfs-21.3

Reviewer: ````suggestion
   ```bash
   nid001133:~ # ls /var/opt/cray/gpu/nvidia-squashfs-21.3
   ```

   Example output:

   ```text
````

   rootfs
   ```

### Check the HSN for the affected nodes

1. Determine the pod name for the Slingshot fabric manager pod and check the status of the fabric.

   ```bash
   ncn# kubectl exec -it -n services \
           $(kubectl get pods --all-namespaces |grep slingshot | awk '{print $2}') \
           -- fmn_status
   ```

> ### <a name="check-dns"></a>Check DNS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<a name="check-dns"></a>

### Check DNS
```

1. Check for duplicate IP address entries in the State Management Database (SMD). Duplicate entries will cause DNS operations to fail.

   ```bash
   ncn# ssh uan01
   ssh: Could not resolve hostname uan01: Temporary failure in name resolution
   ncn# ssh x3000c0s14b0n0
   ssh: Could not resolve hostname x3000c0s14b0n0: Temporary failure in name resolution
   ncn# ssh x1000c1s1b0n1
   ssh: Could not resolve hostname x1000c1s1b0n1: Temporary failure in name resolution
   ```

   The Kea configuration error will display a message similar to the message below. This message indicates a duplicate IP address (`10.100.0.105`) in the SMD:

   ```text
   Config reload failed
   [{'result': 1, 'text': "Config reload failed: configuration error using file '/usr/local/kea/cray-dhcp-kea-dhcp4.conf':
   failed to add new host using the HW address '00:40:a6:83:50:a4 and DUID '(null)' to the IPv4 subnet id '0' for the address 10.100.0.105: There's already a reservation for this address"}]
   ```

> 1. Use the following example `curl` command to check for active DHCP leases. If there are 0 DHCP leases, there is a configuration error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Use the following example `curl` command to check for active DHCP leases. If there are zero DHCP leases, then there is a configuration error.
```

   ```bash

>    ncn# curl -H "Authorization: Bearer ${MY_TOKEN}" -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" \

Reviewer: Need to provide instructions (or link to them) for setting the $TOKEN variable. Possibly add this to the prerequisites list earlier (API token must be stored in $TOKEN variable), with a link to documentation on how to do that. Or just add a step to this document to set it.

       -d '{ "command": "lease4-get-all", "service": [ "dhcp4" ] }' https://api-gw-service-nmn.local/apis/dhcp-kea | jq
   ```

   Example output in the case of a configuration error:

   ```json
   [
     {
       "arguments": {
         "leases": []
       },
       "result": 3,
       "text": "0 IPv4 lease(s) found."
     }
   ]
   ```

> 1. If there are duplicate entries in the SMD as a result of the swap procedure, (`10.100.0.105` in this example), delete the duplicate entry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. If there are duplicate entries in the SMD as a result of the swap procedure (`10.100.0.105` in this example), then delete the duplicate entries.
```

   1. Show the `EthernetInterfaces` for the duplicate IP address:

      ```bash
      ncn# cray hsm inventory ethernetInterfaces list --ip-address 10.100.0.105 --format json | jq
      ```

      Example output:

      ```json
      [
        {
          "ID": "0040a68350a4",
          "Description": "Node Maintenance Network",
          "MACAddress": "00:40:a6:83:50:a4",
          "IPAddress": "10.100.0.105",
          "LastUpdate": "2021-08-24T20:24:23.214023Z",
          "ComponentID": "x1000c7s7b0n1",
          "Type": "Node"
        },
        {
          "ID": "0040a683639a",
          "Description": "Node Maintenance Network",
          "MACAddress": "00:40:a6:83:63:9a",
          "IPAddress": "10.100.0.105",
          "LastUpdate": "2021-08-27T19:15:53.697459Z",
          "ComponentID": "x1000c7s7b0n1",
          "Type": "Node"
        }
      ]
      ```

   1. Delete the older entry.

      ```bash
      ncn# cray hsm inventory ethernetInterfaces delete 0040a68350a4
      ```

1. Check DNS using `dnslookup`.

   ```bash

>    ncn-w001# nslookup 10.252.1.29

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ncn# nslookup 10.252.1.29
```

   ```

   Example output:

   ```text
   1.1.252.10.in-addr.arpa name = uan01.
   1.1.252.10.in-addr.arpa name = uan01.local.
   1.1.252.10.in-addr.arpa name = x3000c0s14b0n0.
   1.1.252.10.in-addr.arpa name = x3000c0s14b0n0.local.
   1.1.252.10.in-addr.arpa name = uan01-nmn.
   1.1.252.10.in-addr.arpa name = uan01-nmn.local.
   ```

   ```console

>    ncn-w001# nslookup uan01

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ncn# nslookup uan01
```

   ```

   Example output:

   ```text
   Server:     10.92.100.225
   Address:    10.92.100.225#53

   Name:   uan01
   Address: 10.252.1.29
   ```

   ```console

>    ncn-w001# nslookup x3000c0s14b0n0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ncn# nslookup x3000c0s14b0n0
```

   ```

   Example output:

   ```text
   Server:     10.92.100.225
   Address:    10.92.100.225#53

   Name:   x3000c0s14b0n0
   Address: 10.252.1.29
   ```

> 1. Check SSH.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Verify the ability to connect using SSH.
```

- The System Layout Service (SLS) must have the desired HSN configuration.

- The blade that is removed from the source system must be installed in the empty slot left by the blade removed from destination system, and vice-versa.

- Check the status of the high-speed network (HSN) and record link status before the procedure.

- The blades must have the coolant drained and filled during the swap to minimize cross-contamination of cooling systems.

  - Review procedures in *HPE Cray EX Coolant Service Procedures H-6199*
  - Review the *HPE Cray EX Hand Pump User Guide H-6200*

- The System Admin Toolkit \(SAT\) is installed and configured on the system.

## Prepare the source system blade for removal

1. Using the work load manager (WLM), drain running jobs from the affected nodes on the blade. Refer to the vendor documentation for the WLM for more information.

<a name="determine-bos-session-template"></a>

1. Determine which Boot Orchestration Service \(BOS\) templates to use to shut down nodes on the target blade.

   There will be separate session templates for UANs and computes nodes.

   1. List all the session templates.

>       If it is unclear what session template is in use, proceed to the next substep.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      If it is unclear which session template is in use, proceed to the next substep.
```

      ```bash
      ncn# sat status --filter 'xname=x9000c3s0*'
      ```

      Example output:

      ```text
      +---------------+------+----------+-------+------+---------+------+-------+-------------+----------+
      | xname         | Type | NID      | State | Flag | Enabled | Arch | Class | Role        | Net      |
      +---------------+------+----------+-------+------+---------+------+-------+-------------+----------+
      | x9000c3s0b1n0 | Node | 1        | Off   | OK   | True    | X86  | River | Compute     | Sling    |
      | x9000c3s0b2n0 | Node | 2        | Off   | OK   | True    | X86  | River | Compute     | Sling    |
      | x9000c3s0b3n0 | Node | 3        | Off   | OK   | True    | X86  | River | Compute     | Sling    |
      | x9000c3s0b4n0 | Node | 4        | Off   | OK   | True    | X86  | River | Compute     | Sling    |
      +---------------+------+----------+-------+------+---------+------+-------+-------------+----------+
      ```

   1. Find the `bos_session` value for each node via the Configuration Framework Service (CFS).

      ```bash
      ncn# cray cfs components describe x9000c3s0b1n0 | grep bos_session
      ```

      Example output:

>       ```text

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      ```toml
```

      bos_session = "e98cdc5d-3f2d-4fc8-a6e4-1d301d37f52f"
      ```

   1. Find the required `templateUuid` value with BOS.

      ```bash
      ncn# cray bos session describe BOS_SESSION | grep templateUuid
      ```

      Example output:

>       ```text

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      ```toml
```

      templateUuid = "compute-nid1-4-sessiontemplate"
      ```

   1. Determine the list of xnames associated with the desired boot session template.

      ```bash
      ncn# cray bos sessiontemplate describe SESSION_TEMPLATE_NAME | grep node_list
      ```

      Example output:

>       ```text

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      ```toml
```

      node_list = [ "x9000c3s0b1n0", "x9000c3s0b2n0", "x9000c3s0b3n0", "x9000c3s0b4n0",]
      ```

> 1. Use the `sat bootsys` command to shut down the nodes on the target blade (in this example, `x9000c3s0`.) Specify the appropriate component name (xname), and BOS templates determined in the previous step in a comma-separated list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Shut down the nodes on the target blade.

   Use the `sat bootsys` command to shut down the nodes on the target blade. Specify the appropriate component
   name (xname) for the slot, and a comma-separated list of the BOS session templates determined in the previous step.
```

   ```bash

>    ncn# BOS_TEMPLATE=cos-2.0.30-slurm-healthy-compute

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ncn# BOS_TEMPLATES=cos-2.0.30-slurm-healthy-compute
```

>    ncn# sat bootsys shutdown --stage bos-operations --bos-limit x9000c3s0 --recursive --bos-templates BOS_TEMPLATES

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ncn# sat bootsys shutdown --stage bos-operations --bos-limit x9000c3s0 --recursive --bos-templates $BOS_TEMPLATES
```

   ```

### Source: Use SAT to remove the blade from hardware management

1. Power off the slot and delete blade information from HSM.

>    Use the `sat swap` command to power off the slot and delete the blade's ethernet interfaces and Redfish endpoints from HSM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Use the `sat swap` command to power off the slot and delete the blade's Ethernet interfaces and Redfish endpoints from HSM.
```

   ```bash
   ncn# scp ethernet-interface-mappings-x3000c3s0-2022-01-01.json <dest>-ncn-m001:ethernet-interface-mappings-src.json
   ```

### Source: Remove the blade

1. Remove the blade from the source system.
   Review the *Remove a Compute Blade Using the Lift* procedure in *HPE Cray EX Hardware Replacement Procedures H-6173* for detailed instructions for replacing liquid-cooled blades ([HPE Support](https://internal.support.hpe.com/)).
1. Drain the coolant from the blade and fill with fresh coolant to minimize cross-contamination of cooling systems.
   Review *HPE Cray EX Coolant Service Procedures H-6199*. If using the hand pump, review procedures in the *HPE Cray EX Hand Pump User Guide H-6200* ([HPE Support](https://internal.support.hpe.com/)).
1. Install the blade from the source system in a storage rack or leave it on the cart.

## Prepare the destination system blade for removal

1. Using the work load manager (WLM), drain running jobs from the affected nodes on the blade.

   Refer to the vendor documentation for the WLM for more information.

1. Shut down the nodes on the target blade.

>    Use the `sat bootsys` command to shut down the nodes on the target blade (in this example, `x1005c0s3`). Specify the appropriate component name (xname) and BOS template for the node type in the following command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Use the `sat bootsys` command to shut down the nodes on the target blade. Specify the appropriate component
   name (xname) for the slot and a comma-separated list of the appropriate BOS session templates for the nodes on the blade.
```

>    The appropriate BOS session template should be determined using the same procedure as was used to [determine the appropriate BOS session templates on the source system](#determine-bos-session-template).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The appropriate BOS session templates should be determined using the same procedure as was used to [determine the appropriate BOS session templates on the source system](#determine-bos-session-template).
```

   ```bash

>    ncn# BOS_TEMPLATE=cos-2.0.30-slurm-healthy-compute

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ncn# BOS_TEMPLATES=cos-2.0.30-slurm-healthy-compute
```

>    ncn# sat bootsys shutdown --stage bos-operations --bos-limit x1005c0s3 --recursive --bos-templates $BOS_TEMPLATE

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ncn# sat bootsys shutdown --stage bos-operations --bos-limit x1005c0s3 --recursive --bos-templates $BOS_TEMPLATES
```

   services   cray-cps-cm-pm-kss5k         5/5  Running   21  41h 10.39.0.80  ncn-w002
   services   cray-cps-etcd-knt45b8sjf     1/1  Running   0   42h 10.42.0.67  ncn-w003
   services   cray-cps-etcd-n76pmpbl5h     1/1  Running   0   42h 10.39.0.49  ncn-w002
   services   cray-cps-etcd-qwdn74rxmp     1/1  Running   0   42h 10.40.0.42  ncn-w001
   services   cray-cps-wait-for-etcd-jb95m 0/1  Completed
   ```

1. SSH to each worker node running CPS/DVS and run `dmesg -T`.

   Ensure that there are no recurring `"DVS: merge_one"` error messages shown. These error messages indicate that DVS
   is detecting an IP address change for one of the client nodes.

   ```bash
   ncn# dmesg -T | grep "DVS: merge_one"
   ```

   ```text
   [Tue Jul 21 13:09:54 2020] DVS: merge_one#351: New node map entry does not match the existing entry
   [Tue Jul 21 13:09:54 2020] DVS: merge_one#353:   nid: 8 -> 8
   [Tue Jul 21 13:09:54 2020] DVS: merge_one#355:   name: 'x3000c0s19b1n0' -> 'x3000c0s19b1n0'
   [Tue Jul 21 13:09:54 2020] DVS: merge_one#357:   address: '10.252.0.26@tcp99' -> '10.252.0.33@tcp99'
   [Tue Jul 21 13:09:54 2020] DVS: merge_one#358:   Ignoring.
   ```

> 1. Make sure the Configuration Framework Service (CFS) finished successfully. Review *HPE Cray Operating System Administration Guide: CSM on HPE Cray EX Systems (S-8024)*.

Reviewer: > We should replace the publication with a link to one of the CFS docs in the repo. Will need to figure out which one, though. @rbak-hpe do you know if we have anything in docs-csm that covers generally how to take a node xname and see if CFS completed successfully on it? If not, we'll probably want to add that, since it seems like a common task.
> 
> If we don't have anything for this currently in docs-csm then there's no need to hold up this PR for it. We'll handle that with a new ticket.

Ryan is out this week. I'll open a new ticket for this piece. New ticket is: https://jira-pro.its.hpecorp.net:8443/browse/CASMINST-4751

1. SSH to the node and check each DVS mount.

   ```bash
   nid001133:~ # mount | grep dvs | head -1
   ```

   Example output:

   ```text
   /var/lib/cps-local/0dbb42538e05485de6f433a28c19e200 on /var/opt/cray/gpu/nvidia-squashfs-21.3 type dvs (ro,relatime,blksize=524288,statsfile=/sys/kernel/debug/dvs/mounts/1/stats,attrcache_timeout=14400,cache,nodatasync,noclosesync,retry,failover,userenv,noclusterfs,killprocess,noatomic,nodeferopens,no_distribute_create_ops,no_ro_cache,loadbalance,maxnodes=1,nnodes=6,nomagic,hash_on_nid,hash=modulo,nodefile=/sys/kernel/debug/dvs/mounts/1/nodenames,nodename=x3000c0s6b0n0:x3000c0s5b0n0:x3000c0s4b0n0:x3000c0s9b0n0:x3000c0s8b0n0:x3000c0s7b0n0)
   ```

   ```bash
   nid001133:~ # ls /var/opt/cray/gpu/nvidia-squashfs-21.3
   ```

   Example output:

   ```text
   rootfs
   ```

### Check the HSN for the affected nodes

1. Determine the pod name for the Slingshot fabric manager pod and check the status of the fabric.

   ```bash
   ncn# kubectl exec -it -n services \
           $(kubectl get pods --all-namespaces |grep slingshot | awk '{print $2}') \
           -- fmn_status
   ```

<a name="check-dns"></a>

### Check DNS

> 1. Check for duplicate IP address entries in the State Management Database (SMD). Duplicate entries will cause DNS operations to fail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Check for duplicate IP address entries in the State Management Database (SMD).

   Duplicate entries will cause DNS operations to fail.
```

   ```bash
   ncn# ssh uan01
   ssh: Could not resolve hostname uan01: Temporary failure in name resolution
   ncn# ssh x3000c0s14b0n0
   ssh: Could not resolve hostname x3000c0s14b0n0: Temporary failure in name resolution
   ncn# ssh x1000c1s1b0n1
   ssh: Could not resolve hostname x1000c1s1b0n1: Temporary failure in name resolution
   ```

   The Kea configuration error will display a message similar to the message below. This message indicates a duplicate IP address (`10.100.0.105`) in the SMD:

   ```text
   Config reload failed
   [{'result': 1, 'text': "Config reload failed: configuration error using file '/usr/local/kea/cray-dhcp-kea-dhcp4.conf':
   failed to add new host using the HW address '00:40:a6:83:50:a4 and DUID '(null)' to the IPv4 subnet id '0' for the address 10.100.0.105: There's already a reservation for this address"}]
   ```

> 1. Use the following example `curl` command to check for active DHCP leases. If there are zero DHCP leases, then there is a configuration error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Check Kea for active DHCP leases.

   Use the following example `curl` command to check for active DHCP leases. If there are zero DHCP leases, then there is a configuration error.
```

> 1. Use the following example `curl` command to check for active DHCP leases. If there are zero DHCP leases, then there is a configuration error.

Reviewer: Same question here as in the Add blade procedure:

Does this step really belong in the middle of the "remove duplicate IP addresses" section? It just struck me as weird that the previous steps and the following step are all centered around determining if there are duplicate IPs and removing them if there are, but this one is about Kea DHCP leases. If it IS meant to be in the midst of the procedure, I'd suggest adding some context to explain its connection.

   In this example, an authentication token for the API gateway is stored in the `TOKEN` shell variable. See [Retrieve an Authentication Token](../security_and_authentication/Retrieve_an_Authentication_Token.md) for more information.

   ```bash
   ncn# curl -H "Authorization: Bearer ${TOKEN}" -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
       -d '{ "command": "lease4-get-all", "service": [ "dhcp4" ] }' https://api-gw-service-nmn.local/apis/dhcp-kea | jq
   ```

   Example output in the case of a configuration error:

   ```json
   [
     {
       "arguments": {
         "leases": []
       },
       "result": 3,
       "text": "0 IPv4 lease(s) found."
     }
   ]
   ```

> 1. If there are duplicate entries in the SMD as a result of the swap procedure (`10.100.0.105` in this example), then delete the duplicate entries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Delete the duplicate entries, if there are any.

   If there are duplicate entries in the HSM as a result of this procedure, then delete the duplicate entries (`10.100.0.105` in this example).
```

1. Install the blade from the source system in a storage rack or leave it on the cart.

## Remove blade from destination system

### Destination: Prepare blade for removal

1. Using the work load manager (WLM), drain running jobs from the affected nodes on the blade.

   Refer to the vendor documentation for the WLM for more information.

1. Shut down the nodes on the target blade.

   Use the `sat bootsys` command to shut down the nodes on the target blade. Specify the appropriate component
   name (xname) for the slot and a comma-separated list of the appropriate BOS session templates for the nodes on the blade.

   The appropriate BOS session templates should be determined using the same procedure as was used to [determine the appropriate BOS session templates on the source system](#determine-bos-session-template).

   ```bash
   ncn# BOS_TEMPLATES=cos-2.0.30-slurm-healthy-compute
   ncn# sat bootsys shutdown --stage bos-operations --bos-limit x1005c0s3 --recursive --bos-templates $BOS_TEMPLATES
   ```

### Destination: Use SAT to remove the blade from hardware management

1. Power off the slot and delete blade information from HSM.

>    Use the `sat swap` command to power off the slot and delete the blade's ethernet interfaces and Redfish endpoints from HSM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Use the `sat swap` command to power off the slot and delete the blade's Ethernet interfaces and Redfish endpoints from HSM.
```

>    ```bash

Reviewer 2: I know you're just following convention here but I really don't care for using `bash` to highlight console commands. For this command you get the word 'enable' randomly highlighted because it's a bash builtin despite having no special significance in this context. `bash` should be for bash scripts imo.

Author: Yeah, I don't disagree. As you note here I am mostly trying to conform with the existing usage and conventions.

>    ```bash

Reviewer 2: I know you're just following convention here but I really don't care for using `bash` to highlight console commands. For this command you get the word 'enable' randomly highlighted because it's a bash builtin despite having no special significance in this context. `bash` should be for bash scripts imo.
